=pod

=head0 Preface

=begin epigraph

"Without deviation from the norm, progress is not possible."

- Frank Zappa

=end epigraph

PerlDancer is a Perl library primarily used for building web applications. The 
development of Dancer started in 2009. After the debut of the first version of Dancer 
in February of 2010, the burgeoning framework quickly became a popular choice for Perl
developers seeking to write web applications within an easy to use and highly performant
modern web framework.  

The Dancer community continues to grow at a rapid pace and continues to be heavily used 
by business large and small. As of the writing of this book, the second version of 
Dancer, a complete rewrite of the first, is a recommended alternative to the first
version despite continued development. 

After reading this book you should have an understanding of Dancer's philosophy, 
features, and ecosystem. You should also be familiar with the differences between
the first and second versions of the framework as well as reasons why the authors
and the Dancer community at large recommend migrating to the second version of the 
framework over time.

We hope you'll enjoy reading this book as much as you could enjoy writing a web
application with Dancer, and we hope that it will become your companion when 
tackling a web development project.

Now...let's enter the dance floor!

=head1 Origins

L<CGI>
L<MVC>
L<microframework>
L<DSL>
L<PSGI>
L<versions>

=head1 Credits

This book would not have been possible without the help of many people and to
them the author(s) are truly grateful!

While the author(s) tried very hard to fix all typos and errors in this book,
imperfections might still exist, and are the fault of the imperfect author(s). 

=cut
